README.adoc, before:

= GlusterCS Deploy tool

A tool to deploy GlusterCS in a existing Kubernetes cluster.

Install the tool in the Kubernetes master node using,

----
sudo pip3 install glustercsctl
----

**Note:** Python 2 support is not yet available

== Usage:

----
glustercsctl deploy <config-yaml>
----

Example config file,

[source,yaml]
----
---
namespace: gcs
cluster-size: 3
nodes:
    - address: kube1
      devices: ["/dev/vdc", "/dev/vdd", "/dev/vde"]

    - address: kube2
      devices: ["/dev/vdc", "/dev/vdd", "/dev/vde"]

    - address: kube3
      devices: ["/dev/vdc", "/dev/vdd", "/dev/vde"]
----

Where,

----
namespace    - Cluster namespace, useful when managing multiple
                   clusters
cluster-size - Number of nodes in Gluster cluster. Currently only 3
                   nodes are supported.
nodes        - Details of nodes where Gluster server pods needs to be
                   deployed.
address      - Address of node as listed in kubectl get nodes(Use
                   `kubectl get nodes` to get the address)
devices      - Raw devices which are required to auto provision
                   Gluster bricks during Volume create
----

== How it works?

`glustercsctl` does the following tasks based on the provided
configuration.

1. Generate the Cluster ID.
2. GCS Namespace setup
3. Etcd Operator setup and Etcd cluster setup
4. CSI driver setup
5. Monitoring Setup


== Is this a Operator?
No. But this tool can be called from an Operator. It is easy! generate
the config when CRD changes and call this tool from Operator pod.


== How is it different from `gcs/deploy`?

This project also uses manifest files from the gcs project, but
executes Kube commands directly instead of using ansible playbook.

== TODO
* Currently using `kubectl` command, instead use kubernetes client library.
* Improve error messages and usability.
* Use kubernetes watches instead of polling for pods status
* Python 2 support
* Support for RPM/Deb packages

Commit message:

Project renamed to kubectl-gluster
kubectl plugins are supported from 1.13 version,
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubectl/kubectl-plugins/

Signed-off-by: Aravinda VK <avishwan@redhat.com>

README.adoc, after:

= GlusterCS Deploy tool

A tool to deploy GlusterCS in a existing Kubernetes cluster.

Install the tool in the Kubernetes master node using,

----
sudo pip3 install kubectl-gluster
----

**Note:** Python 2 support is not yet available

== Usage:

----
kubectl gluster deploy <config-yaml>
----

Example config file,

[source,yaml]
----
---
namespace: gcs
cluster-size: 3
nodes:
    - address: kube1
      devices: ["/dev/vdc", "/dev/vdd", "/dev/vde"]

    - address: kube2
      devices: ["/dev/vdc", "/dev/vdd", "/dev/vde"]

    - address: kube3
      devices: ["/dev/vdc", "/dev/vdd", "/dev/vde"]
----

Where,

----
namespace    - Cluster namespace, useful when managing multiple
                   clusters
cluster-size - Number of nodes in Gluster cluster. Currently only 3
                   nodes are supported.
nodes        - Details of nodes where Gluster server pods needs to be
                   deployed.
address      - Address of node as listed in kubectl get nodes(Use
                   `kubectl get nodes` to get the address)
devices      - Raw devices which are required to auto provision
                   Gluster bricks during Volume create
----

== How it works?

`kubectl gluster deploy` does the following tasks based on the provided
configuration.

1. Generate the Cluster ID.
2. GCS Namespace setup
3. Etcd Operator setup and Etcd cluster setup
4. CSI driver setup
5. Monitoring Setup


== Is this a Operator?
No. But this tool can be called from an Operator. It is easy! generate
the config when CRD changes and call this tool from Operator pod.


== How is it different from `gcs/deploy`?

This project also uses manifest files from the gcs project, but
executes Kube commands directly instead of using ansible playbook.

== TODO
* Currently using `kubectl` command, instead use kubernetes client library.
* Improve error messages and usability.
* Use kubernetes watches instead of polling for pods status
* Python 2 support
* Support for RPM/Deb packages
